At 04:10 PM 9/11/00 +0200, scerir wrote:


>>>>

<excerpt>Signatures of the Invisible (Cern, Geneve) 
http://press.web.cern.ch/Press/Releases00/PR06.00ESignatures.html  

</excerpt><<<<<<<<


Excellent example of a collaborative artistic endeavor emphasizing both
problem solving and imagination.  Although this type of concept mining is
not a novelty, it is still a wonderful exchange of creative ideas in
exploring multi-disciplinary efforts.  I'd like to see more art/science
pieces.


>>>>

<excerpt>Next Sex, in the Age of its Procreative Superfluousness (Linz)
http://www.artbyte.com/aec2000.html
http://extra.waag.org/pipermail/nettime-ro/2000/001054.html  

</excerpt><<<<<<<<


This conference has always been at the top of the roster for quality
events for artists to participate in.


The image of the piece by Laurent Mignonneaund Christa Sommerer's
created, "Life Species II",  is stunning to look at and a really far out
concept.  I have been following their work for a few years and referred
to their collaborations in my talk at Extro 2 Conference.  (They had
exhibited a piece titled "Avolve" at an international digital arts
exhibition which I attended and was blown away by the shear beauty of
their work.)  


Their designs are actually digitized life forms that evolve.  The piece
they have at this Web site (and at the conference) is made up of
creatures (fish) and the event is generated by the actually typing
letters (text) into the system and the artificial creatures survive and
reproduce when fed the letters in their names.  Their work is at the
forefront of artificial life (along with Sims).  


Anyone who can make it to this conference will thoroughly enjoy the
exotic ideas and smart technology used to design and produce art.  Talk
about paint evolving off the canvas!  This is it!  


>>>>

<excerpt>Random? Multipurpose? 
<<http://map.jodi.org/>http://map.jodi.org/  

</excerpt><<<<<<<<


I didn't spend as much time on this Web site because after viewing the
home page, it lost its luster.



Thank you scerir or placing your finger on the cultural pulse.


Natasha



Natasha Vita-More: http://www.natasha.cc

To Order the book: Create/Recreate: The 3rd Millennial Culture

	http://www.natasha.cc/books.htm

Extropic Art & Transhumanist Arts Center: http://www.extropic-art.com

Transhuman Culture InfoMark: http://www.transhuman.org honoring FM-2030

