

<center><bold>Extropic ARTs 

Digital Flash

</bold></center>				<italic>Riffing on Events, Projects & Other Scoop


</italic>

In addition to my recent DigitalFLASH post on Transhumanist Extropic
Artists/Innovators in the news, I just received the following
announcements:



** David M. McLean (musician)  is producing an A/V project. "It is
improvisational in nature - the general theme of "human evolution" being
given to participants, who create their part, then pass it on to the next
contributor. Percussionist Mike Froedge (MCA recording artist) has
completed drum/percussion trax. Next, I will be layering additional
instrumentation (primarily utilizing the Kurzweil K-2000, by the way -
yes, the synth line created originally by Ray Kurzweil), adding vocals
performed by Ria Shear-Smith, and mixing/mastering the audio. Next in
line is artist Alex Kazhdan (W-6 Entertainment) who will lead the
animation team in visualizing the concept. The final version will then be
sent back to me, and I will have it posted via a streaming A/V site
(still negotiating this part). At that time, I would be happy to send you
the NetTV URL so that you might share this with any interested parties."
http://www.skinnydevil.com/Music.htm



** Marshall Burns (author/designer) is happy to present his latest vision
of the future of digital manufacturing for the first time in my home
region of Southern California. 


        What: "Atoms from Bits -- The Digital Revolution in
Manufacturing" 

        For more information: Go to
<underline><color><param>0000,0000,fefe</param>http://www.tiesandiego.com/

</color></underline>


** Fiorella Terenze (musician/astrophysicist)  Working as Project
Director with the Miami Museum of Science, Fiorella is developing,
working title "The Commercialization of Space," and as Director of New
Media for the Miami Space Transit Planetarium, she is am writing and
producing a new planetarium show,  "Stars of the Season, Stars of the
Sea," which will premiere on Feb. 13, 2001.


** John Spencer (space architect/producer)  Founder & President of Space
Tourism Society (STS) is participating in a major fund raiser for Space
Frontier Foundation on April 12, 2001 and is co-sponsoring the second
Space Tourism Expo at the Pasadena, California Convention Center.  For
further information, please go to http://www.space-tourism-society.org.







metaC U L T U R E

To Order the book: Create/Recreate: The 3rd Millennial Culture

	http://www.natasha.cc/books.htm

Transhumanist Extropic Arts Center: http://www.extropic-art.com

Transhuman Culture InfoMark: http://www.transhuman.org

