

Creative innovators,


If you are not on the contact list for Transhumanists Arts & Culture or
Extropic Art, please let me know and I will send you our Digital Flash
which is basically a newsletter on Media/Events/Projects which I sent
periodically.  Please know that I only put in the Flash material that is
emailed to me, so if you have something to contribute, please send it to
me because your efforts are appreciated and we want to know what you are
doing!


I'll attach this months Flash, and email me privately if you would like
to be added to the contact list.  


<center>

*  *  *  *  *

<bold>Transhuman Extropic ARTs 

Digital Flash

</bold></center>		<italic>	Riffing on Events, Projects & Other Scoop


</italic>

Hello creative visionaries!


I last communicated with you in July, just over 3 months ago.  Since then
we continue to expand globally with many hundreds adding their names to
the Extropic Art Manifesto, along with continued international
recognition.


Several magazines have covered Transhumanist Extropic Arts the past few
months:


**Recent* Magazine/Newspaper Articles*


	Italy's El Espresso magazine feature cover story "Giovani per sempre"
which interviews me about the future of the arts and references "Primo
3M+" http://www.extropic-art.com/aesthetics.htm, and also Roy Walford and
his new edition of _The 120 Year Diet_.


	 Scifi Dimensions online magazine  interviewed Gina Miller 

http://scifidimensions.fanhosts.com/Nov00/ginamiller.htmxx


	Miami Herald newspaper covers FM-2030's cryonic suspension
http://www.herald.com/content/today/news/broward/obits/digdocs/040217.htm
 (There are numerous articles on FM's writing, books and life available
on the Internet.)


*Magazine/Newspapers *to be Published**


	Deit Zeit (German) magazine feature coming out soon, article titled
"Nanovisions" which focuses on nanotechnology and includes ideas about
Extropic Art.


	Harper's Bazaar top cultural and fashion magazine conducted a
preliminary interview with me last week about an article for their 2001
issue.


	LA Weekly has already conducted an interview with me for a feature
article, but don't have a publishing date.  The editors are deciding
whether to make it a cover story, etc.  


	Deit Zeit has is interested in pursuing a feature article on my future
body design "Primo 3M+".  Anyone who would like to collaborate with us on
this, please send your ideas soonest!  You will ideas and will be
credited with mention of your names and studios, of course.


	STERN (German) magazine (science) will be coming to Los Angeles to
interview me on our artistic extropic transhumanist culture.



*Television and Radio*


	British Discovery series "The Science of Beauty" featuring Extropic Arts
discussing the future Extropic transhumanist artistic concepts of beauty
and why we want to live longer will be airing sometime this winter.


	Internet Radio, "In Search of Solutions".  I will be the keynote speaker
on discussing ageless thinking.  This will air Sunday, March 18, 2001 at
3 pm ET USA.  http://www.counselingzone.com/solutions


	"Future Fantastic" is rerunning on US TV.


	The Science Fiction Channel canceled its series which was supposed to
air this year and which was to feature two segments on Extropic Arts.


				*  *  *  *  *


I continue getting numerous phone calls and messages about our culture,
and because the history of transhumans and transhumanism has been blurred
by the Net's inconsistent Web sites and some non-researched print
articles, I decided to start a new business.  The business is called "m e
t a Culture" and its aim is to work toward getting information to the
public as openly, positively, accurately and as creatively as possible.


				*  *  *  *  *


New Projects:


"Release" is a work in progress, but hopefully the progress will soon be
realized.  It's a flash driven animation and with a storyline, narration,
and music of E. Shaun Russell and, hopefully, Max R. Rasmussen.  Jason
Joel Thompson is advising on Net media. Anyone who would like to
collaborate with us on this project, please email us.


FM-2030, well known futurist and transhuman was suspended in July.  We
are planning a collaborative event with Space Tourism Society (STS) which
is holding its "Space Fair 2001" in the fall at Pasadena's Convention
Center.  http://www.space-tourism-society.org


				* * * * *


Please send me information about your recent, current or future projects,
exhibitions, performances, books, talks, explorations!


I received about 10 bounces from our last digital data letter, so please
email me if you have a change of email address.  Thanks.


Natasha

metaC U L T U R E

To Order the book: Create/Recreate: The 3rd Millennial Culture

	http://www.natasha.cc/books.htm

Transhumanist Extropic Arts Center: http://www.extropic-art.com

Transhuman Culture InfoMark: http://www.transhuman.org


"The day will come when anything considered the state-of-the-art will be
in

demand and aesthetic contributions to the future considered the

alpha-of-thinking."

