<center><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>"Will Spiritual Robots
Replace Humanity by 2100?"

----------------

</fontfamily>

<fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Douglas Hofstadter  presents...

Kurzweil/Moravec Symposium

<italic>FREE and open to the  public

</italic>April 1, 2000, 1pm - 5:30. TCSEQ room  200.

(Parking in "A" lots OK on Saturdays)

</fontfamily>

</center><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Primary
speakers:</fontfamily>   

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Ray
Kurzweil</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>   
(inventor of reading machine for the blind, electronic keyboards, etc.,
and    author of "The Age of Spiritual Machines")</fontfamily>    

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Hans
Moravec</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param> (a   
pioneer of mobile robot research, and author of "Robot: Mere Machine to  
 Transcendent Mind")</fontfamily>    

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Bill
Joy</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>   
(co-founder of, and chief scientist at, SUN Microsystems)</fontfamily> 



<fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Panel members:</fontfamily>   

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Ralph
Merkle</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>   
(well-known computer scientist and one of today's top figures in the
explosive    field of nanotechnology)</fontfamily>    

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Kevin
Kelly</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>    (editor
at "Wired" magazine and author of "Out of Control", a study of   
bio-technological hybrids)</fontfamily>    

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>John Holland
</fontfamily></bold>(inventor of genetic algorithms, and artificial-life
pioneer;    professor of computer science and psychology at the U. of
Michigan)    

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Frank
Drake</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>   
(distinguished radio-astronomer and head of the SETI Institute -- Search
for    Extraterrestrial Intelligence)</fontfamily>    

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>John
Koza</fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>    (inventor
of genetic programming, a rapidly expanding branch of artificial   
intelligence)</fontfamily> 

* 



<fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Symposium organizer and panel
moderator:</fontfamily>   

* <bold><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>Douglas Hofstadter
</fontfamily></bold>(professor of cognitive science at Indiana; author of
"Gödel,    Escher, Bach", "Fluid Concepts and Creative Analogies", etc.) 

<center><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>----------------

</fontfamily></center>

In 1999, two distinguished computer scientists, Ray Kurzweil and Hans 
Moravec, came out independently with serious books that proclaimed that
in the  coming century, our own computational technology, marching to the
exponential  drum of Moore's Law and more general laws of bootstrapping,
leapfrogging,  positive-feedback progress, will outstrip us
intellectually and spiritually,  becoming not only deeply creative but
deeply emotive, thus usurping from us  humans our self-appointed position
as "the highest product of evolution". 


These two books (and several others that appeared at about the same time)
are  not the works of crackpots; they have been reviewed at the highest
levels of the  nation's press, and often very favorably. But the
scenarios they paint are  surrealistic, science-fiction-like, and often
shocking. 


According to Kurzweil and Moravec, today's human researchers, drawing on 
emerging research areas such as artificial life, artificial intelligence,
 nanotechnology, virtual reality, genetic algorithms, genetic
programming, and  optical, DNA, and quantum computing (as well as other
areas that have not yet  been dreamt of), are striving, perhaps
unwittingly, to render themselves  obsolete -- and in this strange
endeavor, they are being aided and abetted by  the very entities that
would replace them (and you and me): superpowerful  computers that are
relentlessly becoming tinier and tinier and faster and  faster, month
after month after month. 


Where will it all lead? Will we soon pass the spiritual baton to software
 minds that will swim in virtual realities of a thousand sorts that we
cannot  even begin to imagine? Will uploading and downloading of full
minds onto the Web  become a commonplace? Will thinking take place at
silicon speeds, millions of  times greater than carbon speeds? Will our
children -- or perhaps our  grandchildren -- be the last generation to
experience "the human condition"?  Will immortality take over from
mortality? Will personalities blur and merge and  interpenetrate as the
need for biological bodies and brains recedes into the  past? What is to
come? 


To treat these disorienting themes with the seriousness they deserve at
the  dawn of the new millennium, cognitive scientist Douglas Hofstadter
has drawn  together a blue-ribbon panel of experts in all the areas
concerned, including  the authors of the two books cited. On Saturday,
April 1 (take the date as you  will), three main speakers and five
additional panelists will publicly discuss  and debate what the
computational and technological future holds for humanity.  The forum
will be held from 1 PM till 5:30 PM, and audience participation will  be
welcome in the final third of the program. 

<center><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>

----------------

</fontfamily></center>

<center><italic><fontfamily><param>Helvetica</param>This event is brought
to you with the  gracious support of 

Stanford's Symbolic Systems  Program,

the Center for the Study of Language and Information,

the  Computer Science and Philosophy Departments,

the Center for Computer-Assisted  Research in the Humanities,

Channel 51,

and the GSB Futurist  Club.</fontfamily></italic>   

</center>

Natasha Vita-More: http://www.natasha.cc

To Order the book: Create/Recreate: The 3rd Millennial Culture

	http://www.natasha.cc/books.htm

Transhumanist Arts Centre: http://www.extropic-art.com

Transhuman Culture InfoMark: http://www.transhuman.org

