<bold><fontfamily><param>Times</param><bigger>SOURCE:  AP BREAKING WIRE



March 3, 2000





</bigger></fontfamily></bold><fontfamily><param>Times</param>

<bold><bigger><bigger><bigger><bigger>Vitamin C Pills, Artery Clogs
Linked



------------------------------------------------------------------------


</bigger></bigger></bigger></bigger></bold><smaller>A.P. INDEXES:
<color><param>0000,0000,abab</param>TOP STORIES</color> |
<color><param>0000,0000,abab</param>NEWS</color> |
<color><param>0000,0000,abab</param>SPORTS</color> |
<color><param>0000,0000,abab</param>BUSINESS</color> |
<color><param>0000,0000,abab</param>TECHNOLOGY</color> |
<color><param>0000,0000,abab</param>ENTERTAINMENT</color> 

------------------------------------------------------------------------


</smaller><bold>Filed at 1:16 a.m. EST


</bold>

<bold><bigger>By The Associated Press



</bigger></bold>SAN DIEGO (AP) -- Vitamin C pills may speed up hardening
of the arteries, researchers suggest in a new study they called a
disturbing surprise. 

The researchers cautioned that more experiments are needed to know for
sure whether megadoses of the vitamin actually are harmful. 

Still, they said the finding supports the recommendations of health
organizations, which generally urge people to avoid high doses of
supplements and to get their nutrients from food instead. 

Many people load up on vitamin C and other nutrients on the assumption
that these supplements are good for their health, even though there is
little scientific evidence this is true. In theory, vitamin C and some
other nutrients might protect the circulatory system and other organs by
suppressing the damaging effects of oxygen. 

``When you extract one component of food and give it at very high levels,
you just don't know what you are doing to the system, and it may be
adverse,'' said Dr. James Dwyer, an epidemiologist who directed the
study. He presented the findings Thursday at a meeting in San Diego of
the American Heart Association. 

Clogged arteries -- what doctors call atherosclerosis -- are the major
underlying cause of heart attacks and strokes. 

In the latest study, doctors looked for early signs of this process by
twice performing ultrasound scans on volunteers' carotid arteries, once
at the study's start and again 18 months later. 

Dwyer and colleagues from the University of Southern California studied
573 outwardly healthy middle-aged men and women who work for an electric
utility in Los Angeles. About 30 percent of them regularly took various
vitamins. 

The study found no clear-cut sign that getting lots of vitamin C from
food or a daily multivitamin does any harm. But those taking vitamin C
pills had accelerated thickening of the walls of the big arteries in
their necks. In fact, the more they took, the faster the buildup. 

People taking 500 milligrams of vitamin C daily for at least a year had a
2 1/2 times greater rate of thickening than did those who avoided
supplements. Among smokers, the rate was five times greater. 

``If a person's physician has prescribed vitamin C, it is appropriate to
be taking it,'' Dwyer said. ``But if you are a healthy person and taking
them in hopes of preventing cardiovascular disease, the heart association
does not recommend it. This study would suggest that recommendation is
prudent.'' 

Dr. Shiriki Kumanyika of the University of Pennsylvania said the research
shows the uncertainties of picking out a single vitamin among the
plethora of nutrients in a healthy diet. 

``It's a challenge to sort out what it is in what people eat that makes
them live longer,'' she said. ``We have to be careful about recommending
foods or nutrients, because if we are wrong, we can do harm.'' 

In general, experts recommend that people get their vitamins and other
nutrients from fruits, vegetables, whole grains and nuts. 



</fontfamily>

