

ABSTRACT:  What daring 21st century concepts or projects would you most
like to see pursued, if money were no object?


==============


Hello friends, this is a quick query for some of the most imaginative
and tech savvy people I know.


*What bold endeavors do you wish you could see funded in the next
decade?


The reason I ask is that I've been invited to speak at a hifalutin
meeting about philanthropy, specifically dealing with two extraordinary
pools of capital:


(1) the estimated fifteen trillion dollars that baby boomers stand to
inherit from the World War II generation, and


(2) the huge run-up in paper wealth seen recently at the pinnacle of
the New Economy.


Many of you have heard my Eye of the Needle notion, so I'll be brief.
Beyond traditional philanthropy -- (e.g. to aid medical research,
distribute food, clothe the poor, grant scholarships) -- new varieties
may influence the world our grandchildren inherit. Initiatives with
high risk-of-failure, combined with extraordinary benefits in the event
of success.


Traditional sources of mega-capital -- business and government -- have
constituencies (voters and stockholders) that demand accountability and
risk avoidance.  Return horizons of five years are typical.  In
contrast, private individuals may choose to gamble on ventures of
genuine vision, especially when the chief repercussion of failure is
mere loss of investment (not, say, damage to human life or
ecosystems).


MY AIM in writing to you is to ask this; what frustrates you?  What
cool or potentially beneficial endeavors have been stymied that you
would fund right now, if you had deep pockets?


EXAMPLES:  might include the immense energy tower that some Texas and
Israeli researchers proposed for desert regions, drawing both moisture
and wind power from high-level air flows...  or how about funding the
solar sail tests that NASA (for some reason) has delayed for thirty
years, potentially letting even high schools send cameras to Mars?


One of my favorites would be an international Henchman's Fund for
whistle blowers, offering huge annual prizes (and protection) to
uncover the secrets of corrupt cabals all over the world.  If it worked
even once, the swarm of cats, jumping out of bags, could be
awe-inspiring.


Or consider the following; <italic><smaller> With the $25 Billion that
Sam Walton left to just five people, he could instead have funded a
manned mission to Mars!  In exchange, how could the International
Astronautical Union refuse to rename the moon Deimos "Walton"? Old Sam
missed that bet, but  some other multi billionaire may not.


</smaller></italic>Here's another: consider how much wealth was
generated in the U.S. by groups holding old-fashioned rights-of-way
into big cities -- e.g. railroads and gas companies, who now profit by
running fiber optic data highways into urban zones.  Today there are
plenty of 3rd world cities festering in poverty and low property
values. But will they remain so?  An optimistic squint can envision
Lagos or Sao Paulo rising someday, the way Kuala Lumpur has. In which
case rights of way, purchased now, might have inestimable value.


****************************

ENOUGH for now.  You get the idea.  All I'm asking for is a couple of
paragraphs describing things YOU would love to do, if someone offered
you a couple of millions... or several hundred million dollars... to
spend on a neat project.  (Is that really too much to ask?  ;-)

    If you also happen to know a web site or two -- or can send some
clippings -- describing your project(s) in detail, that'd help too.

****************************


This could be a rare sort of list.  Imagine that we compile a hundred
ideas, and just two percent actually get done.  We'd all win, big.


Thanks for your time.


With cordial regards.


David Brin

http://www.kithrup.com/brin/


