At 02:08 AM 4/24/01 +0200, Francois-Rene Rideau wrote:


>Are there books, articles, whatever, on this topic?


The whole Piagetian stream of psychology has some bearing. Useful
discussions can be found in Alan Cromer's UNCOMMON SENSE (Oxford UP,
1993) and John McCrone's THE MYTH OF IRRATIONALITY (Macmillan, 1993).


============


Recently, sociologists have asserted that `western' science is just one
form of many `ethno-sciences', each with its own rich claim to be taken
seriously as a form of valid knowledge.  Alan Cromer is a fundamental
particle theorist with a special interest in science education, and he
won't have a bar of it.  Most knowledge systems, he claims, project the
culture-bound shape of human minds upon the outside world.  In a special
sense defined decades ago by the developmental psychologist Jean Piaget,
they are `egocentric'.  By contrast, the techniques of inquiry invented
by the Greeks and rediscovered three or four hundred years ago in Europe
- techniques which have remade our world utterly - deny that outer
reality can be known through intuition alone.  While the daily practice
of science is clearly swayed by rhetorical skills, special interests and
power politics, it works so well because at base it strives for
objectivity.  In Piaget's terms, its practice requires `formal
operational' mental skills, which are never attained by more than half
America's (and presumably all First World) adults.  Hence, most of us
`can't analyze a situation with several variables,' as Cromer states
scathingly, `or understand a simple syllogism'.

[...]

Recall that physicist and educator Alan Cromer has argued that science
can really only be done by people with formal operational skills (mental
abilities defined by psychologist Jean Piaget) which inadequate schooling
has failed to develop in perhaps half the adult population or more. 
Without these tricks of objective thought, Cromer and Piaget argue,
humans construct egocentric narratives about the universe based on
projecting the inner world into the outer.  Ego-centric in the literal
sense - their worlds are experienced as if actually projected outward
from their own minds, as if directly malleable before the power of wish. 
(Of course not even the hardest-nosed reductionist doubts that optimistic
or self-paralysing attitudes can skew the way you act, which in turn
changes both those parts of objective reality you deal with and modifies
the attitudes of other people.)  Egocentrism is the assumption about the
supposed top-down flow between (a, your) mind, and the world, which is
made explicit in the sad little New Age slogan: <italic>You create your
own reality</italic>.


=========================


That's from my LAST MORTAL GENERATION.


Damien Broderick

