


A<fontfamily><param>Geneva</param><smaller> minor matter of courtesy.
I had asked that the entire cc: list NOT be used till an actual
discussion list could be established on a voluntary sign-up basis.
Well, too late.


In any event, Arthur Clarke asked to opt out of the discussion.  So
please drop
"</smaller></fontfamily><<blenheim@sri.lanka.net><fontfamily><param>Geneva</ 
param><smaller>"
from future cc: replies.


The rebuttals of "Iridium-II" by Nathan and Mike do seem rather
devastating.  They have been passed on to some related discussion
groups for followup. </smaller></fontfamily>
A<fontfamily><param>Geneva</param><smaller>las, some good-sounding
ideas need reality-checks.  The good news is that the internet lets us
form ad-hoc groups to ferret out failure modes with great rapidity.*


My one answer to Nathan & Mike re Iridium is this: the chief problem as
I see it isn't political.  It is the 2-5 year lifespan of the
satellites themselves, meaning there must be a continuing source of
capital and continuing relationship with Motorola et.al. in order for
the scheme to work.  Who's going to buy into such headaches?
Philanthropy once is one thing... a hemhorrage that goes on and on...
well, that's something else.




Ah, well.  Remember, I'm still collecting ideas for my catalog of nifty
projects that don't fit the investment horizons of govts or corps, but
that might suit the posterity-driven needs of the New Philanthropy.
(I'm keynoting on that subject in May.)  Let me know if any occur to
you.  I've got a good list of tasty endeavors already.


With cordial regards.


David Brin



</smaller></fontfamily>*<fontfamily><param>Geneva</param><smaller>(See
this depicted in my 1989 novel "Earth".)
</smaller></fontfamily>


