<bigger>

<excerpt><bold><color><param>0000,0000,ffff</param><bigger><bigger>“Genome
Hunt Shows Humans Closer to Rats Than Cats”

</bigger></bigger></color></bold>

August 13, 2003; Washington, D.C. (<italic>Reuters</italic>) -- A
comparison of human DNA to <bold>12 other animals 

</bold>shows we share more than our genes and helps show that people are
more closely related to <bold>rats </bold>than

to <bold>cats</bold>, scientists reported on Wednesday.  The survey also
adds to the argument that so-called "junk" 

DNA is <bold>nothing of the sort</bold>, but must do something important
because it stays virtually identical across 

many species.  It also supports what is becoming increasingly clear --
that the stretches of DNA we call 

genes are only a small part of the genetic story.


        The research team at the National Human Genome Research Institute
and several universities 

compared the same stretch of DNA in a<bold> chimpanzee, baboon, cat, dog,
cow, pig, rat, mouse, chicken, 

zebrafish, </bold>and<bold> two species of pufferfish</bold> -- the
Japanese delicacy <italic>Fugu</italic> and <italic>Tetraodon</italic> --
with <bold>human 

</bold>DNA.  In people, this stretch of DNA it is a much-studied genetic
region that contains the CFTR gene 

that, when mutated, causes Cystic Fibrosis.


        "It provides some pretty definitive evidence that we are indeed
closer to rodents than we are to 

carnivores," Dr. Eric Green, scientific director of the NHGRI and leader
of the study, said in a telephone 

interview.  "Our data really puts the nail in the case. In the sequence
you can find changes in the genome 

that clearly occurred in both humans and rodents but did not occur in
others."  The changes come in repetitive 

sequences of DNA that, until just a few years ago, were believed to be
junk -- useless stretches of trash 

that somehow got saved.  DNA is very difficult to interpret. It’s long,
long code is built on just four 

nucleotides -- the compounds known by the abbreviations <bold>A, G, T,
</bold>and<bold> C</bold>.  


<bold><color><param>0000,0000,ffff</param><bigger>A Tricky Code to 
Break

</bigger></color></bold>

        Reading the long string of four letters repeating in various
combinations is proving to be even 

trickier than scientists thought it would be. At first they believed the
genes -- the sequences that control 

production of the protein building blocks of the body -- would be the
only functioning parts of the sequence.  

But it turns out there are sequences that control the genes, and perhaps
that do even more. "It now seems 

that about 5 percent of our genomes are functionally important," Green
said.  "Only a third of that codes for

genes. That means that two-thirds of what is functionally important is
not (gene) encoding DNA. We don't 

even know what it looks like <bold>so how are we going to find
it?</bold>"  Green hopes to do so <bold>by comparing the 

genomes of different species.</bold>  "This is the idea that you can
truly use sequences from multiple genomes and 

analyze them all at once to try and find the small percent that is shared
among all of them," he said. "We believe 

this is going to be a very valuable way to find those sequences that are
very important."  Why? Because nature 

cannot ditch vital DNA.  "Evolution is about mixing things up. If
evolution has hung on to some stretch [of DNA], 

even if it is repetitive, it is telling us something ... Where did
(evolution) find it wasn't safe to change the genome?" 

he asked.


        Green's team, working with researchers at Pennsylvania State
University, the University of Washington, 

and the University of California at Santa Cruz, will look at 100
different regions of the genomes of the 13 species.  

This is the first region they have analyzed, they reported in Thursday's
issue of the journal <italic>Nature</italic>.  "We will 

discover new types of functional elements in the coding DNA that we
didn't even know existed," Green said.

</excerpt></bigger>
